seven marketing lessons learned from
billion dollar companies that you've
never heard of you've heard of tick tock
tick tock's one of the biggest companies
in the world it's owned by byte dance
which does over 58 billion dollars in
revenue you've heard of facebook google
apple even amazon they're all
multi-billionaire companies and some of
them are even worth over a trillion
dollars but have you heard of danaher
probably not but they generate over 29
billion dollars a year in revenue have
you heard of fordiv they generate 7
billion in revenue each year have you
heard of ceridian they generate over a
billion dollars in revenue look there
are a lot of companies that generate
over a billion dollars a year in revenue
and you've never heard of them
companies don't have to be as well known
as nike to be successful
so let's go over some marketing lessons
learned from these multi-billion revenue
generating companies that you've never
heard of
number one it's easier to market
multiple products than it is to market
one product see big companies have
multiple products because it's hard to
generate all that revenue from just
selling one thing now a common example
that you're very familiar with is apple
apple has laptops computers phones ipads
headphones the list goes on and on
similar to how it's easier to generate
more revenue by selling multiple things
the same goes with marketing there are
only so much search volume for terms
like laptops but if you combine that
with
the phone market or headphones and other
things it opens up more marketing
opportunities now if you look at
companies like fordive or danaher or
even ceridian they have multiple
products which makes it easier to add
more revenue and it makes it easier in
the marketing as well
two
it's easier to market in existing big
market have you heard of the word tam it
stands for total addressable market for
example almost everyone in this world
has a phone or at least in america
according to pew research 97 of
americans have some type of mobile phone
so it's easier to market mobile phones
because everyone has one or needs one or
will want one on the flip side if you
are selling seo tools like me like i
sell uber suggests there are only so
many customers for it
not as many as people who want cell
phones
so make sure you're selling products and
services that a lot of companies and
people need
it makes it that much easier to market
as there'll be more people to market to
which creates more volume
three
the best marketing is word of mouth it
doesn't matter how much money you have
to spend on marketing nothing beats word
amount the only way to get that is to
either create amazing products or
services just for comparison when you
look at historical data according to
statista when ford spent 4.1 billion on
global advertising apple only spent 1.8
billion dollars in essence apple spent
less than half of what ford spent yet
apple is 46 times roughly bigger of in
size because people love their products
and really evangelize them and if you
look at ford of and danaher and ceridian
the ceridian is a great example of this
people love ceridian's payroll because
you can actually get paid out daily as
an employee that creates that virality
why because people love ceridian's
product
number four ugly is sexy everyone wants
to create a cool company like selling
ipads but who wants to create a payroll
software company like ceridian
but it's a huge market because everyone
needs to get paid whether you live in
america or india or brazil it doesn't
matter what country when you work for
someone you need to get paid or dan or
her they have a water treatment company
called chemtree
may not sound sexy but hey we all need
water
a lot of the biggest companies out there
solve big problems that are ugly and
necessary and those companies are easier
to market because it's less competitive
five the united states isn't the center
of the world yes i live in america and
i've lived in other countries as well
and i'm not here to say one country is
better than another that's for a
different debate and that's up to for
you to decide
but here's the thing when you're
marketing
if you look at all these multi-billion
dollar companies especially the ones
that i mentioned they're global you
don't want to create a company that just
going after the us or just going after
china or india or you know brazil you
need to ideally create a global company
because it gives you more people to
target which makes it easier on your
marketing so take your marketing global
six your marketing is only as good as
your team it doesn't matter what you're
selling or how good you are
marketing is a team effort you need
amazing people on your team who have
done it before
to do well
look for people on linkedin who have
worked for your competition and been
promoted multiple times as the chances
are they've been promoted multiple times
that company found them to be good
and if you hire them and they're a good
culture fan you think they can do well
for you the chances are
they'll have a higher chance of success
compared to someone else who hasn't
worked for a competitor and hasn't been
promoted within their job because it
usually means people don't find them as
valuable
number seven you have to build a brand
to do well in the long run all big
companies work on building a brand for
example in the united states around
three times more people search for
danaher than water treatment you build a
brand by not only building a good
product or service but by also being in
a business for many many years ideally
10 plus so you need to be patient
so what other marketing lessons have you
learned from multi-billion dollar
companies
if you need help marketing your company
especially if you're in an ugly industry
check out my ad agency np digital where
we help all types of companies grow
their traffic and sales from the web if
you have any questions leave a comment
if you enjoyed the video like it share
it tell the people about it and have a
wonderful day